[Music]
foreign
it's like you're living with a horrible
micromanaging boss all the time and we
know what that's like if we're actually
sitting next to one of those people and
they're constantly barraging us and yet
we just think it's normal when it's
coming from ourselves
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
foreign
most of us have a voice in our heads
constantly narrating our experience
have you ever noticed what yours is like
how it talks to you
how would you feel if someone else spoke
to you the way this voice speaks to you
would you speak to someone else in this
way
today we're going to explore how the
voice in our head influences what we say
do and feel and explore how to develop a
new relationship with it
Joe what is the voice in the head the
voice in the head well let's make a
distinction there's a voice in your head
which is the thing that you can hear
talking to yourself
it's kind of the editor that's
constantly happening that's judging your
situation wondering what people are
thinking about you telling you what to
do telling you how to do it
and and I would make a distinction here
that there's the voice in your head that
is repetitive and the voice in your head
that is unique or inspirational
so
neurologically speaking they say that we
have about 50 000 thoughts a day that
happen that's the voice in your head
and most of those for most people the
voices saying the same thing over and
over again
you should lose weight you should lose
weight you should lose weight
or
why why are you drinking so much coffee
stop drinking so much coffee right it's
a repetitive voice in the head and so
when I'm speaking about the voice in the
head
in the context of working with people
I'm talking about the
repetitive
bossy
critical voice in the head so let's take
a moment to like help listeners tap into
their voice in the head right now
because if it's 50 000 thoughts a day it
must be accessible at any time yeah
that's great yeah great
so a wonderful way to do this is to
just be silent for the next say
20 30 seconds and stop thinking
okay so in that time period there a
thought arose and maybe the thought was
how long will the the silence last or
this is stupid what makes us do this or
I hope I didn't forget the
eggs in the in the oven whatever
and that's the voice in the head that's
what it is it's the constant
thinking that goes on and for most
people it's very auditory it's very word
focused for some people it's more
somatic
it's more body focus but
Grand majority of people they can
literally it's like they can hear the
voice yeah I kind of felt both uh as the
silence went on I started to feel a
little bit of tension in my body and
then the thought that popped up was like
I wonder how much Dead Space we should
have in a podcast before we lose
people's attention
great yeah perfect
right so both are always happening
there's a somatic well that's not
exactly true there's always the somatic
experiencing that's occurring you can't
stop that
and then oftentimes there's thoughts
that go with it the tricky part is that
the more you become aware of the voice
in your head the more you become aware
of what it's saying so oftentimes
when people first get confronted with
the idea they might not think they have
many thoughts in their head and the
voice in the head isn't very active and
then the more they pay attention to it
the more they realize it's constantly
humming along back there and obviously
there's people who do a tremendous
amount of meditation or different
practices where the voice in the head is
far more silent particularly the
reoccurring voice in the head is far
more
silent and quiet
and that in itself is an interesting
thing because the somatic experiencing
hasn't stopped and so to some degree
it's harder to find
um
the pain that's occurring The Voice
makes it much easier to feel that pain
or to see the
the dysfunction of the way the voice
happens and it's harder to understand it
or see it or
work with it if it's just a somatic
experience and
what I notice is the more
the more you become aware of it the more
sensitive you are to it the more
sensitive you are to it the more you
realize what it's saying and how it's
saying it
so a great example of that
um you know I did a ton of meditation
and um in my earlier years and
a point came along where the voice in
the head you know cut by like 75 percent
and
I felt like it was gone for a while as
far as the reoccurring negative looping
thoughts and
over time I've noticed oh no there's
still things there that took me a while
to notice like just the thing that's
always saying oh have you done this have
you done this have you done this have
you done this right
so it's just a matter like anything and
like the more it's subtlety see it it's
it you know the more sensitive you
become to it the more you become aware
of how much it's affecting your
day-to-day minute-to-minute life and
what makes it important or interesting
to become aware of it like I imagine if
I had a roommate in my head just
constantly talking to me ignorance would
be Bliss so what what makes it
worthwhile to start paying attention and
noting what it's saying if what it's
saying can be so self-critical and
distracting yeah there's a couple
reasons one is it's because the it's the
first step to a different relationship
with it so
in my first experience of really
becoming aware of it I was reading a
psychology book on Gestalt it was Fritz
pearls I believe and he was talking
about how there was a upper dog and an
underdog in your in your internal
dialogue and there was the the upper dog
was like the bully
telling you what to do criticizing you
and then the underdog was the one that
was rebelling against that guy
which is a much more subtle quiet voice
that people often takes years for people
to get in touch with and experience
and just being aware of it just being
aware and for for me in particular it
was the should thing I think he called
it out he's like when you tell yourself
you should do something that's that's
the that's the upper dog and just by
recognizing it and seeing it every time
it came it just started to become
quieter and quieter so just the
recognition of the voice in the head
can change the way the voice in the head
dialogues with you
until you resist it until you're like oh
man I gotta change that voice in my head
then the voice in the head is now
telling you to change the voice in your
head and that resistance makes the voice
in your head persist but just the simple
awareness of it just like the gentle oh
there it is doing that thing again
can reduce it and so then the question
of course is like why would I want to
reduce this voice in my head
and there is a ton of reasons for that
um a very active negative voice in the
head is
and the DSM they would call it dystymia
right the definition of low-level
depression is this constant negative
self-talk
so that's one reason another reason is
because life is just far more enjoyable
and sweet when you're
not repeating like when when your
Consciousness isn't a horrible boss
right so so on one level you said like
oh what if my roommate was all that I'd
rather just not hear them
um the truth is that when you have this
deep critical
voice in your head it's like you're
living with a horrible micromanaging
boss all the time and we know what
that's like if we're actually sitting
next to one of those people and they're
constantly barraging us
and yet we just think it's normal when
it's coming from ourselves right and so
just the joy and Bliss of life as that
voice changes or as your relationship to
it changes it totally can transform how
much joy and happiness and
ease and and uh Clarity you can have
right and so somebody I was talking to
recently about the voice in the head
they said that like their voice isn't
like a self-critical voice but what they
do is they rehearse conversations or
like conversations they could have had
and it seems like that is kind of a way
of
being self-critical like it
the fact that you would rehearse a
conversation you've already had about
how you could do it better comes from
self-criticism
and then self-criticism is shaping the
thoughts of what you thought you should
have said what are some of the other
ways that the voice can show up in
people if if somebody's listening to
this and they're not connecting with
this idea of there being a voice in
their head that's critical of themselves
or the upper dog as you put it
constantly telling you things to do uh
shutting you
uh wondering about what other people
think of you incessantly or even just
more than once rehearsing
trying to make sure that you get perfect
at something before you actually go and
live it
all those are great examples of how the
voice in the head can work there's kind
of a multitude of ways that it can work
and and it's quite cool in the way that
it finds its new home when you've
spotted one
you know like I said before you can be
saying oh the should thing I understand
that I don't want that so I'm just going
to be aware of it and then producing the
voice in the head becomes the aggressor
to the voice in the head itself it's
amazing how it can just find its new
natural home
and Zen you know they talk about trying
to use the voice in the head to get rid
of the voice in the head I'm
paraphrasing here but
to use a voice in the head to get out of
the voice in the head is like um asking
a thief to
to be the security of your house
it doesn't work yeah it's like the voice
the voice isn't you
and the voice speaking to the voice is
also not you all of it is just in the
way of your impulse
and what that kind of brings me to one
of the characteristics of the voice is
that it seems to be slowing us down
either by pulling us out of the present
into the past or the future
trying to solve some unsolvable puzzle
or the the self-criticism in it can just
inhibit us from taking steps that you
know may be imperfect but our steps
or saying things that just speaking
what's true for us in the moment without
imposing a lot of constraints on it
around what people might think or what
what might be wrong about it or
something yeah I mean just a great a
great way to think about this is so your
voice in your head has worried about
how some future thing's going to go
maybe a job interview or maybe a first
date whatever
and if you think about all the worrying
that you did and all the scenarios that
it went through and all the things you
thought you were going to say and all
the ways you were going to behave like
how much of that was actually pertinent
how much of that was actually useful
energy how much of that actually helped
you prepare
and how much of it just did nothing it
was just a waste of time and how much of
it actually hurt right so I see
oftentimes when people are rehearsing
things over and over and over again
it builds up such a anxiety around the
actuality of the thing happening that
they're not there and present with
what's occurring in front of them when
the time to rehearse is over right yeah
in my experience of that is it also sets
you up for a major disappointment and
self like a shame spiral after the
conversation doesn't go anything
according to your rehearsal
yeah I mean that's that's a
characteristic of the voice in the head
actually is to create the reality it's
trying to avoid give an example of like
a perfectionist right and having the
voice in the head trying to tell you
convince you that you need to be perfect
about something
and that incessant nature makes it very
hard to even do something really well
right that's why you see so many artists
get hooked on Heroin or alcohol or
anything that just silence the voice in
their head so that they can be in that
flow state so that they can create their
best work
it's no different than doing a
PowerPoint presentation or making a
speech or
having a great first date
and it's about being present in the
moment and
and being true to yourself in that
moment yeah and like in an even more
diffuse way just sitting down and like
looking at a blank page or a blank
canvas and feeling that like just that
slight negative emotion of like uh
whatever my first brush stroke is about
to be is going to be wrong
like whether or not that's even a voice
that's like I've I've always felt that
present in anything that I'm doing to
some extent
and most of the time just didn't notice
it and many times just didn't take
action on things that I wanted to do orc
would have loved to have done
but just didn't notice that I didn't do
them because
I avoided feeling that feeling and then
I avoided feeling that I had felt that
feeling and that's why I didn't do the
thing I wanted and then Justified it for
some other reason I just didn't have
time and that's a great example so it
could just be a Feeling
than if you stop and you say hey what's
the message behind that feeling then
you'll be more aware of the voice and
oftentimes
for different people they'll be more
aware of the feeling are more aware of
the voice and they're often in concert
and the voice can be really subtle and
thought and and the or the feeling can
be seemingly very subtle just like the
voice can seemingly be very subtle so
what's the way when you when you start
noticing this voice and you just start
start paying more attention and noting
it what are some tips for
not getting into a resistance battle
with it
but also not buying into everything it
says which I guess is what we do by
default when we're not noticing there's
a voice yeah right that's the thing the
thing about having no awareness of the
voice and it's happening even in you
know this moment I have awareness of the
voice happening and this moment I don't
um is that when we're not noticing it's
happening it's far more likely to
control what we're doing
so that's I think a really good point
that you just made as far as how there's
so many ways there's a plethora of ways
of working with the voice in your head
so one whole category of ways to work
with the voice in your head is just to
ask how you relate to it right so voice
in the head says oh you should have done
better in that project right so some
ways to relate to it would be
um okay fine
and then kind of like a subtle [__] you
in response to it and another way to
relate to it is oh I see that you really
care that I do a good job and I would
love to ask you to use better management
techniques with me you know another way
to deal with it is to practice silence
and another way to deal with it is to
love it another way to deal with it is
to tickle it another way to deal with it
is to really really get in a massive
fight with it and then see what happens
when you're exhausted from that fight
the main thing here that I really
recommend is to is to play and to
experiment right you think that
oftentimes the kind of the underlying
assumption is that there's this voice a
it's never going to change
and B there's nothing I can do about it
and see it'll always be there
and well what if it's like I'm just
gonna do a series of experiments with
the voice in my head I'm just going to
play with it in different ways I'm going
to laugh at it hysterically one day and
I'm gonna just notice it another day and
I'm gonna love it the third day so
there's all there's so much flexibility
in it
but there's something in our system that
is so scared of having that voice in the
head go away or to change that it
convinces us that we have no flexibility
or no options around the voice in the
head when I've heard other people
describe this in other books
um or other other work and there's even
a little bit of in this in this
conversation is that there's this
assumption that the voice itself is not
valuable
and that's just it would be better if we
didn't have it and then here's a bunch
of strategies to get rid of it
um but I'm curious what value is there
in that voice because often the the
self-criticism that I experience of like
how I could have done something better
is real it's just that I feel shame that
I didn't do it that way the first time
but I actually could have done better
you know so it's like maybe maybe the
voice has something valuable to say
there's a way of looking at the voice in
the head of hearing it and hearing the
intention behind what it's saying and
that's almost always valuable
if you assume for a minute that the
voice in the head loves you
and
it's just really has a whole bunch of
crappy strategies to love you but it
really loves you
then there's a way of listening to
everything the voice in the head has to
say is a deep care it's just not doing
it really well
right it's just not like if I told you
wow you're messing up this podcast
you're hey you're messing up this
podcast hey you're messing up this
podcast
and yes look you're still being silent
you're messing up this podcast why
aren't you saying something Brett you're
messing up this podcast like that's not
going to make a great podcast
but the Deep care behind that is oh it
really wants you to have be successful
and so
getting in a war with the voice in the
head is like you just you can't ever win
that the question is what's the
relationship you want within mm-hmm like
another cool thing to think about is
that oftentimes the voice in the head is
talking to itself more than it's talking
to you
I'm gonna let that one sit for a second
right it's like it's almost projecting
onto you when the voice in the head is
saying you're messing up this podcast
you're messing up this podcast well is
it you or is it the voice in the head
that's messing up the podcast yeah
there's there's something interesting in
that where the the voice in our heads
often seems to
map onto an actual person in our history
or some
blur of many people in our history that
were
caretakers or parents
or teachers yes like a lot of the things
that I say to myself in my head are
things somebody else might have said to
me in the past and so I've just
internally learned to say it to myself
first before somebody else does it you
know yeah that's part of the care that
it has is it's trying to keep you out of
trouble it's trying to keep you not
from not being insulted from not being
chastised to not having to feel you know
the way it felt when you were three
years old and being chastised and so
it's absolutely it often mimics very
important figures in our life or it's
reacting to very important events in our
life and that's definitely how it goes
which is interesting because
oftentimes if you know we had let's say
a really critical mom and the mom just
constantly criticized us at some point
you're just like you're full of it you
know you don't know what you're talking
about
but you don't you don't question your
your head that way right so if your mom
constantly is like you should shave more
you should shave more you should shave
more you're like yeah you're full of you
don't need you're the wrong generation
you don't know but if the voice in your
head says you should shave more you
should shave more you should shave more
and you're like far more likely to buy
into it but it's not even you didn't
even choose to program it
you didn't even choose
what reality it agrees with
that was chosen for you and yet you
constantly humans constantly believe
what's going on in the voice of the head
which is another way to relate to it is
to actually
see through the false logic of the voice
in the head the voice in the head is
always contradicting itself is like you
were too cocky there you were too humble
there you spoke too much you didn't
listen enough you listened too much you
didn't speak enough if you really start
looking at how the voice in the head
operates it doesn't give you actually a
place to to succeed often
it like there's no way out it's
everything's there's a problem with
everything
and yet we still buy into it so to
really look and find out that there's a
little bit of untruth in everything the
voice in the head says everything
the voice in the head says and to find
that
it gives you a lot of freedom and
perspective from The Voice in the head
itself the the reoccurring negative
voice in the head well what about the
truth in it like what what about the
times where if I if I did say the thing
that I thought of saying that I might
have lost a client or lost a partner or
angered somebody or gotten judged like
how much of it is untrue and how much of
it is true yeah this is an interesting
question right so let's say you've done
something that insulted a client
and
let's say the best thing to do is to say
hey I'm really sorry about that
I did that it's not what I wanted to do
it's not how I wanted to be with you and
I apologize
and then that thing that you did wrong
can build trust can actually make your
relationship deeper
if you're in your head saying wow you
screwed up with the client and that say
happens once yeah then it's not a
reoccurring negative thing and you
immediately take action on it
then whatever's happening is it's an
effective efficient cycle
right but if you're saying it multiple
times and doing nothing about it
or you're saying it 20 times and then
doing something about it that is not an
efficient cycle
that's just self-abuse
that's just like there's no need for
that it doesn't make you happier it
doesn't improve the relationship it
doesn't make them happier with you it
doesn't build trust and none of that it
doesn't it doesn't add anything there
so the important thing is that it's
reoccurring and it's negative self-talk
yeah something I notice is when it's
when it's reoccurring there's often some
kind of double bind there's like oh like
I I really screwed that up what I need
to say is this but I already said the
other thing and I can't go back on my
word or
another is just this sort of a fight
between the different versions of the
voice yeah exactly like how efficient is
that right like how is that helpful
exactly and there's a wisdom to it and
it's like oh well what is it that you
want oh I want a better relationship
with them and I don't want to look like
I'm inconsistent and I want to be
respected by this person
and if you get in touch with that and
you just name that it's actually you
know particularly in like a view frame
of mind it's it's like amazing to say oh
hey wow I noticed that I was
inconsistent here it's not how I want to
be with you and I also notice that I'm
having a hard time saying
that I was inconsistent because I'm
scared you're going to look at me this
way this way but it's more important for
me to be in in my integrity
than to you know try to look good in
front of you and so I apologize and how
can we proceed to build trust from here
when the voice in the head is abusing
you like that what's occurring is you're
creating fear in your system right it's
creating anxiety and then that anxiety
it makes you think in in a binary way I
either apologize I don't apologize it
doesn't give you the whole
vast array of opportunities in front of
you at any moment
and it also that anxiety also puts it so
that you have like a false end where
you're like
the only moment you can see to is that
moment of apologizing or not apologizing
you're not seeing like the whole
relationship and how it can get better
over time
and so that abuse that self-abuse turns
to anxiety the anxiety prevents us from
learning the anxiety limits our options
are the options we can conceive of
the anxiety stops us from seeing past a
very particular moment
and that's another reason why an abusive
voice in the head is is not effective
the thing you just said like uh that
scenario where you were just speaking to
the client was beautiful and I could
imagine being and this this has happened
before where I'm like what would Joe say
and I'm like I can't come up with what
Joe would say and I'm like oh or like
what what would I say if I was
speaking so clearly from my truth that I
don't feel like I have access to because
I'm under barrage from all these
different voices
and then nothing gets said and so
there's a thing you said to me the other
day which was like you know life is
really great once you realize you're
already wrong right yeah
yeah there's another thing just there's
a so what I did when I said what is it
that I really want and then I spoke the
want and what you're doing is saying
in some version of what's the right
thing to say whether it's through the
projection of me or through being
completely high integrity
and so doing the right thing trying to
make it right
is part of the anxiety yeah that is the
voice that's what the voice is trying to
do it's trying to make you right exactly
and that's fear of being wrong and
that's how the voice gets more and more
subtle right because it sounds it sounds
like a great thing like what would my
highest Integrity self say sounds like a
like a great thing but it's still trying
to get it right and that's why I said to
you life is great when you know you're
wrong because then you don't have to try
to be right and then you're just
operating from that place naturally that
that place of Integrity naturally and so
I find the much neater trick is just to
say what do I want and then speak into
that want Which is far more vulnerable
than trying to be right yeah absolutely
I mean like being right is trying to say
or do the thing that is perceived by
both the voice in your head and others
as everybody agrees that it's right
which is an impossible task totally
impossible exactly and what you want is
something that it can flow and change
it's it can be true in the moment and
you may get what you want or not get
what you want and then learn more yeah
that's right that's right
also there's this total freedom in
identity right if you if you
aren't worried about being right
and you don't need everyone to think
you're right
and you don't need to be right like
there's a huge freedom in that there's
just like this amazing freedom in it
and what's cool is that if you're there
and every time you worry about being
right or every time that you're wrong
and somebody's chastising you for being
wrong and you let that emotion move all
the way through you it's like it
disintegrates more and more of
what some traditions would call the ego
but what I would call just limiting
perspective it just starts to
disintegrate your limiting perspective
and it allows your identity to be far
more expansive internal experience of
identity to be far more expansive and
and need a lot less protection
I can observe that any of my internal
thoughts are actually trying to avoid
feeling something the thought might be
self-criticism which is trying to gain
control over myself to avoid feeling
whatever whatever I felt by not getting
it right in whatever sense
um but also like rehearsing a
conversation or
just overthinking about something that a
like a project that I want to do if I
find myself in a circle or a cycle on it
it's often that I'm just trying to
collapse the discomfort of the unknown
into some framework of known
and if I'm trying to do that to some
extent that's impossible it'll just be a
unsolvable puzzle and I'll just keep
doing it when if I just let myself feel
the
the powerlessness of the unknown
then all of a sudden those thoughts go
away and then I'm actually freed up to
take action what's cool about what you
just said is that's a fractal or a micro
version of a major thing that happens
whether it be the fear of death
or the fear of taking a risk right to be
okay with that feeling of unknown to be
okay with like I don't know what's going
to happen next which is true like we
think we know it's going to happen next
we get taught over and over again we
don't you know we create our our world
so that it we think it's predictable and
then something very unpredictable
happens everyone has a plan until you
get punched in the face right I haven't
heard that one I've heard
um I think it was Muhammad Ali or
somebody don't quote me on that there's
another one I think it was John Lennon
which is plans are what you do while
life is happening
so like that generally is to to be in
love with the feeling of of confusion
and mystery and unknown
and like all emotions it seems like if
we do that then we won't make plans or
if we do that we won't be prepared or if
we do that
and if that's happening then the voice
in the head has convinced you of that
through some wonky logic what actually
happens when we get good with that is
that plans happen far more naturally
organically and they flow far easier
yeah well this brings up something else
that uh like some another way that this
has shown up in my life as stopping me
from
from like moving forward
um if I get to the point where I'm
rehearsing a possible conversation
and then I feel like I've actually fully
rehearsed it and then it was perfect
then all of a sudden it becomes
completely uninteresting to have that
conversation anymore because hey I don't
want to like break its Perfect Image in
my mind
and B it becomes boring because there's
no unknown in it
and then C sometimes I'll actually trick
myself into thinking I actually had the
conversation it could be disastrous
yeah I can't I can't comment how many
times I've been like wait a minute
didn't we talk about this no we never
talked about this oh oh no right
yeah so that I mean those are all the
more subtle ways that the voice in the
head operates yeah I mean you just kind
of described how
maybe the voice in the head doesn't want
to feel the the system doesn't want to
feel rejection and so the voice in the
head starts with let's rehearse so that
you don't experience the rejection
and then the voice is like oh this is
boring and then the voice is like you
probably already had the conversation
I mean that's that's how the whole thing
works and so it's like there's always a
way for it to insinuate itself and the
more you become aware of it like I say
it's subtle to you see it and then the
more you see it the more depth there is
available and all that is needed is just
to relate to it differently and to love
it and to be aware of it and not have a
fight with it and then you can have
moments that happen in your life that
they feel like big moments
um sometimes sometimes they don't and
all of a sudden you'll recognize oh the
voice in my head is like so much quieter
there's so much less of it yeah what
happens when you get to that point what
did it feel like when you had that like
sudden 75 reduction in the voice in your
head it's different for different people
um
for some people it's hardly noticeable
it's like it's such a slow progression
and for some people especially what I
notice is people who are like really
deeply depressed when that kicks in then
it's just like this life-changing holy
crap which has happened some people they
resist it and they feel like they're
I think there's this whole thing called
depersonalization disorder and and or
the thing called Zen sickness and so
people can it can happen they're like
wait a second where am I this isn't good
I can't I need that back so you can have
all sorts of reactions to it um
when it happens and you're aware of it
and you're not fighting with it it's
incredibly joyful it's it's just it's
like your car has just become 75 more
efficient
your energy is far more aligned with
um the way that you want to be going and
not second guessing yourself and
and it's more enjoyable you're more in
the present all that stuff but again
to have a goal to get rid of the voice
in your head
is to not love the voice in your head
and therefore it is a very slow process
far better to just love the voice in
your head as it is
and not try to get rid of it and not
reject it yeah it almost sounds like the
framing of like getting rid of the voice
in the head is like creating separation
from it but what we're actually going
for is developing such a relationship
with it that it's communicating with us
so cleanly that it is just a part of us
instead of you know compressing itself
down into words and then
you know hitting us in our like logic
like Battlefield
yeah it's an interesting question you
know eventually that question comes up
as you're talking about like what's the
voice in the head and what's you
and what's the difference between them
and I think that's a great question to
be sitting with but not to be answering
to be in that question
like what's what's the difference
between me and the voice in my head
actually
that in itself can change your
relationship with the voice in your head
you know with that to sit with what are
some other
what's another like practice or maybe a
homework assignment to develop this
relationship further with their voice
there's infinite amount and they work
different for different people at
different stages so when I see somebody
I can point more directly to what might
be useful for them but
generally
um there's two that come to mind
one is you know just tell yourself that
you love yourself maybe in a mirror and
a camera and then listen to the response
to you loving yourself all the ways that
it makes you uncomfortable all the
things that you say that you're not
lovable for that's all the voice in your
head so if you want to excavate it it's
a great way to excavate it
um
another one which is a more subtle trick
is just to ask the question what's
looking out behind my eyes right now
and you'll notice that that often quiets
the mind
it also kind of puts you in where your
identity has moved from awareness I mean
from the voice in your head to awareness
right so is are you the voice in your
head that's constantly talking or are
you the awareness of the voice in the
head talking
and so it it asks that question and you
can do it at any time it's a great
practice in the fact you can be in a
meeting you can be in a fight you can be
going to the bathroom and you can say
what's looking out behind my eyes
and there's a ton a ton of versions of
that question the most common one uh is
who am I or what am I
not that's not a question to be answered
that's a question to to be in right it's
to be in Wonder in that question
um but there's a ton of ton of little
hacks hack questions like that that are
available
but I'd say start with one of those yeah
what about journaling
um like writing down the voice in your
head no I don't have any problem with it
yeah it's a great thing if you want to
write what the voice in your head is
saying to you great yeah and like bring
it into awareness even better once
you've done it find
like be an argumentative lawyer to it
not an adversary but an argumentative
lawyer and find out what's a little
untrue in each of the statements
you know so someone says I should lose
weight well
you should lose weight according to who
what do you mean by shouldn't you be
this the way you are because the
definition of should is what is right so
and what so I have to lose weight
because if not I'll die early and what
makes it that dying early is bad and
who's to say that the best thing isn't
for me to die early I know that's a
crazy but look for any way in which the
logic might be
right also I should lose weight I've
been saying it for a decade it doesn't
work so what makes me keep on saying I
shouldn't lose weight maybe I should say
I want to lose weight and what's the
response to I should lose weight most
people's responses Rebellion that they
don't do it
so there's all sorts of ways to just
start looking into and analyzing and
bringing
um a fresh perspective into the voice in
your head yeah it seems like the example
you just gave also helps get people like
somebody asking those questions would
get themselves more in touch with what
they're actually afraid of correct
underneath the the Judgment The Voice
had right you can bring View
you know the from the first podcast and
from the course you can bring that same
methodology and and point it towards the
voice in your head right being
vulnerable with it like ow it really
hurts when you tell me I should lose
weight
being impartial with it like I'm I'm not
going to try to get rid of you like what
what's going on what do you really have
to say being empathetic with it like how
scared is the voice in the head to be
like shouting at you like this like
what's it so afraid of and to feel that
to bring Wonder to it
right you can bring all of that view to
your voice in your head and you can
dialogue with it in a journal it's a
great great practice there's really
infinite ways to deal with it to play
with it to have fun with it
and I just encourage people to like
to experiment play yeah yeah it seems
like a great internal playground for a
view and then you might find that the
same kind of view conversations you
start to have with a voice in your head
are gonna probably be somewhat similar
to the conversations you might have with
your first view conversations with your
with your family or your parents or you
know your family of origin where many of
the voices come come from yeah it'll
also affect all your relationships so if
you see through your own shoulds
and somebody says you know I really
think I should you see through their
should
whereas if you believe your should then
you believe there should if you believe
you know your sense of rigid morality
then that is inhumane then you'll
believe their sense of rigid morality
that
um is not humane
so when you see through your own voice
in your head
you are a Bastion of freedom for people
because when they're talking to you you
don't buy into their limiting
perspectives so to wrap this up can you
can you ask a couple questions for our
listeners to to ponder to integrate this
conversation yeah
how do you want to relate to the voice
in your head
what's the most fun experiment you can
think to do around the voice in your
head
and
what would it take for you to enjoy the
voice in your head just as it is without
wanting it to change perfect thank you
Joe I really love this conversation I
really liked it I felt really alive yeah
yeah thanks Brett thanks for listening
to the art of accomplishment if you
enjoyed what you heard today please
subscribe and rate US on your podcast
app we'd love your feedback so feel free
to send us questions or comments you can
reach out to us join our newsletter or
check out our courses at Art of
accomplishment.com
[Music]
foreign